We are here today in this fabulous little
bathroom to talk about how to toilet train,
that is train your cat to use a human toilet.
Now this process can take months so you want
to be sure that you can have a dedicated bathroom
that you can have your cat use. So what we
have done here is we start out by putting
the litter box on the ground right next to
the toilet. So you are going to want to get
your cat used to using the litter box in this
little room next to the toilet. There is a
product that you can use that you can add
to the, an herbal product, an herbal additive
that you can add to the litter box that will
help attract the cat to the litter box that
can be an added benefit as you move through
the phases. You want to move through this
phase very slowly and you want to make sure
that the litter box is stable at all times.
So we start out by just raising it just a
little bit. The idea is that we are going
to raise it more and more and more until it
is at the same level as the toilet. As it
gets taller you may want to duct tape your
old magazines or books together just to make
sure that it is real stable because the last
thing that you want is to have the litter
box slide anywhere or fall. You are going
to want to have some sort of step stool just
to make it easier for the cat to get up there
and not have to make a lot of really calculated
jumps. You want to make sure that the box
is secure so the cat is not going to end up
tipping it over or anything. You may want
to use a slightly smaller box. It may actually
take you a while to get the cat from the point
that they are down on the the floor using
the litter box to where they are actually
up on the top of the toilet using the litter
box. This is going to take a different amount
of time for every cat and you may find that
it gets up there and they are kind of like
not so interested in using the toilet up there
and then you may have to lower it again and
start building up to the top of the toilet
again or you may have a cat that is really
fine with doing it. You are going to life
the lid. Now there is a product you can buy
that actually fits right into the toilet here
that has, starts out with no hole and it gets
a bigger and bigger and bigger hole. It is
basically a litter box that is fitted into
the toilet and the idea is that you start
with no hole, get the cat used to sort of
perching its paws on the seat and pooping
into the litter box and it can scratch around
and stuff and then the very first step is
to open up that hole a little bit so that
you can see the water come through and that
is where the real decisive moment comes. Your
cat may be like there is no way I'm using
that and then you may want to take a step
back and go back to using the litter box.
You may also want to keep your eye out whenever
you see the cat using that. You may want to
give it a treat, give it copious praise. It
is kind of like potty training a child. So
you are going to have that little hole. You
want to be sure that you are using a litter
that is flushable because you will get litter
that falls through into the water and you
don't want it to clog up your plumbing. So
you have your flushable litter. You have your
basin and then you have your little hole.
If your cat is comfortable with that little
hole which is a big stopping point for a lot
of cats, then you can start making the hole
a little bigger, a little bigger, a little
bigger and basically the idea is, and you
can use a little, pick up something at the
hardware store to line the inside of the hole
so the litter doesn't fall right through but
as it gets bigger and bigger the goal is to
get it big enough so that there is just a
little bit of litter on the outside and then
there is no litter at all. The cat is just
perched on the toilet and pooping right into
the toilet.